Yeah.
>> Okay.
So, we are live on YouTube.
So uh we will be uh first calling the
team uh team ID
277 IIIA0277
Fusion X deep fake image detection with
GPU accelerated distributed learning. So
uh we can admit that
Hi team. Uh
good morning.
Uh
just
I guess
yes. There's a echo coming in.
So before we start uh giving you a idea
we'll be like already communicated you
will be having 12 minutes to present uh
the project. A warning will be given to
you at 10 minutes. Uh there will be a
chat
saying that 2 minutes are remaining.
Please try to wrap it up in 10 12
minutes. After that uh the Q&A session
will be open to the jury. We have work
history and head of technology services
at USG and Sadesh Babu co-founder and
past president of INAP joining here as
the jury members. So uh if you are all
set to go start yes uh you can yeah
please you can start the presentation.
You can go ahead. Thank you. All the
best.
>> Yes. Thank you. So good morning to the
jury and myself Wunatki this is Duresh
Sona and Adish Pawar is also here and uh
we yes Adish has started the PPD.
So I I would first like to uh tell tell
that what is the significance of deep
fakes. Next slide.
So defects are uh AI generated material
and uh those those images
uh there's an audio coming
so AI generated images are deep fakes
and as we can see here that uh slide
slide the the deep fakes uh incidents
have increased at a remarkable rate
since 2023 and there are several
incidents like the recent One was that
the Bangaluru residents duped off rupees
95 lakhs by deep fake videos of Naran
Morty and Mkesh Shambani and various
celebrities have also become the victims
of deep fakes that their deep fake
videos have been circulated on social
medias like Instagram, Facebooks and
various kind of incidents are increasing
day by day. So the motivation behind
this fusion X was that uh to uh to
overcome the challenge of deep fake and
build a model that can detect deep fakes
efficiently as well as it it has a less
memory overhead. So efficiency as well
as accuracy we kept in mind. Next slide
please. So what is the innovation behind
Fusion X? Why Fusion X is different?
Next slide.
So, Fusion X is a customuilt hybrid deep
learning model. We are combining uh the
CNN that is convolutional neural
networks and the vision transformer into
this. And uh the main thing is that it
helps us to identify both pixel level
and semantic level manipulations. So, uh
it is designed mainly for precision,
adaptability and real world readiness.
Uh next slide. So, now let's dive uh
deep into fusion x model architecture.
Huh? So this is what I was talking
about. This is a model architecture. The
as I said previously that we have
combined the CNN and uh the vision
transformer blocks. So uh the S0 stage
and the S1 stage consists of the
convolutional blocks. S0 stage has a
simple convolutional 3x3 blocks and it
it has a stride of two so that we can
capture all the uh local so that we can
capture all the pixel level or or the
local level features of the images and
after that we are moving that data to
the S1 bottleneck architecture which can
be repeated L1 times. So our models uh
another feature is that it can be
generalized also the model uh layer that
the models layer that is the S1 layer we
can repeat it to increase the capture of
local features as many times as we want.
Okay. So in S1 we have the convolutional
one by one block then depth wise
convolution and then again convolutional
block and uh to prevent the feature loss
that is happening like only we are
capturing the local features. So to uh
to reduce the feature loss that is
happening and to uh also capture the
other features we have also included a
skip connection from the uh the first
block to the output of the second block
that you can see the arrow combining
that and after the two blocks initial
two blocks we come to the S2 that is the
transformer block which also can be
repeated L2 times. So it has multi head
attention basically it has three heads
and then the simple addition uh
normalization layer and the feed forward
layer and the again normalization layer
and it comes uh comes to the output. So
our problem is like the basic binary
classification problem is it real or is
it deep fake. So transformer layer
transformer encoder layers and the multi
head attention layers it helps to
capture all the global features as well.
So this by this we can capture all kind
of defect features that that can that an
image can include. Next slide please.
Okay. So now I would like to hand over
to Adish Paw. He'll be carrying Dur
Sonar. He'll be carrying for
no worries myself. So I will be
explaining mostly the training part of
the uh upper system and uh the uh back
end and front end part which I will give
a short demo on it. So first part is
pytor distributed training. So what we
have used for training our model is we
have we had made a cluster of six GPUs
in our college where we trained our
model. So we implemented uh that using
PyTorch. In PyTorch we use a
torch.istributed
uh
uh so we use torch distributed package.
Uh it was used for uh mainly
communication between the GPUs. So eGPU
uh had one processor. Uh we can say it
as a node and we used NCCL for the
communication back end. So it uh made
use of Ethernet to communicate with each
of the processor and share the data
whichever
for the training purpose. Uh the
connection workflow is also given. Uh we
assign ranks and GPUs exchange gradients
and parameters within themselves. Next
slide. Uh for then there are two uh
methods which we implemented. Uh the
first one was FSGP that is fully sharded
data parallel. What this does is as you
can see in the image we uh
whatever model we had we sharded its
parameters into multiple processors. So
each uh processor used to uh use its uh
sharded model structure or parameters
and train on the uh same data uh let's
say there's 10 GB data. So each model
used to train on the 10 GB data but
using the some partial parameters. So
the advantage and limitations are also
given that uh it was had low memory
usage and scales up to billions of
parameters. The model if it is large
then we can use this method.
>> Can you uh take the next slide?
>> Yep. So uh the next part we used was GDP
distributed data parallel which we have
currently used in our uh system now
because our model is not that big uh
compared to what whatever Google and
large scale LLM are doing. So we use DDP
uh in our current system and uh what it
simply does is whatever data set you
have let's say we have a 10 GB data set.
So it it the data set is sharded into
multiple processors. So each processor
will get around 2 GB we can say 2GB 2 GB
2GB like this every processor gets a uh
data set partial data set and the
advantages of it are simple it is simple
and it has high throughput the
limitations are high memory usage and
not efficient for extremely large models
next slide. Okay. So the this is short
uh info about our back end. Uh we have
the back end routes and features. So
whatever what we have done is uh we in
our backend system we have uh used four
routes. First one is image detection
which is the main route where uh uh the
user can send a single image for the
image detection and also our plug-in
uses this route to send those images and
those are detected. Uh then we have used
a get model which will uh fetch the
model which user is using like we have
two models in our current system. One we
have name named as 1.0 and the second
one is 1.5. The 1.5 one is the beta one.
So uh this routable data which the user
has subset. Then we have a subscribe
route so that user can subscribe to a
better model and the authentication for
login and uh sign in purpose. So there
are also uh we have added secure
authentication using JWT uh there are
tokens for login then user data
management uh and uh we have used fast
API so I will just uh give a short uh
demo I will share my screen
is sharing the screen will show you the
demo is my screen visible
Yes. Yes.
>> Uh so this is our uh login page where I
will just uh login.
Currently our server is on uh local
system. We haven't deployed it anywhere.
Uh so we can see the model using 1.5. So
I had subscribed to this model that is
why I'm using uh 1.5.
We can always uh switch to uh if any uh
new user comes he can always switch and
uh
subscribe to a new models.
So this image shows the confidence score
as 69% and it is real. I will uh show
the plug-in feature. So
I have loaded the plug-in in our uh in
the in this browser. I'll just switch
this to on. And if I search anything,
let's say that
any image.
So it will take some time and show us
that uh is the image real or fake.
As you can see this is my profile and it
is showing green right now. So this
image is real. Uh this image is showing
the green border. So it is real. This is
fake and this is fake. Now also you can
see the images are processing it. More
minutes remaining.
So I will shake hello to Aisha. Thank
you.
Okay. Uh hello everyone. My name is
Aishwar. Now from uh we have uh came to
know about like core engine of our whole
system. Then from core engine to real
life deployment. Our defect detection
system has a started with a core engine
called a train deep learning model
capable of a distinguish between the
authenticate and manipulated images. But
building a model is not isn't enough. So
deployment in word requires a scaling
scalability and reliability. That's why
we design a high level system design. As
you can see in the uh uh diagram, this
is the HID of our system having a
multiple component like GPU cluster,
load inf load balancer, API gateway,
caching and database. Mainly GPU cluster
is required for evaluation. When the
inference is created, there are multiple
crowd here and for that evolution, we
need a GPU cluster on server side when
inference is created and a load balancer
to manage the whole talk. Then we will
move forward with the real life
scenario. There are mainly two scenario
I have mentioned here. The first one is
a computer exam registration portal for
the ID verification and second is the
social media application for content
moderation and user preference. The why
the defect model will play a role here.
Like imagine a student registering for a
high-stake exam like a NET. When they
upload their image ID, it automatically
send to a detection API which uh if the
model verifies the it is verified or
authenticated images then register
proceed smoothly. Uh registration
process will be proceed smoothly. And if
the image is flagged as a defect, the
system alerts the student with a popup
like your image is fake. So reupload
that images image. This prevents a
misuse of fake ids and ensures a
fairness in exam registration. After
then moving forward to the social media
application. Nowadays the content
moderation and user preference is more
important than privacy.
when having a multiple fake images in
our feed is not uh unlike to uh
everyone. So uh now consider a social
media app. A user often uh see a
manipulated and misleading content with
our system integration. If user enables
the option of hide fake images, the
fusion scans the post in a real time.
Authentic authenticate the image are
displayed normally with the verified by
fusion AI tag. If defect and manipulate
images are blurred with warning. If the
we found a defect images, it is blurred
with the warning that the this image is
flagged as a possible defect. So you
can't do that if anyone if user have we
have provided user with the full control
that they can choose the if anyway
option like I want to see that image so
he can he or she can then this allows
platforms to maintain a trust with a
respecting user preference.
Uh so for as you can see there are two
architecture images so this can be our
real life use case. Then moving forward
uh so from core AI uh so from core AI
research to scalable deployment our
fusionic system demonstrate how the
defect detection can directly integrate
into real life application or real life
scenario from exam registration portal
to the social media feeds solving real
life for problems at scale. So that's
all about from our side. This is our
defect detection system for a scalable
uh solution for the real life problem.
So thank you so much.
>> Thank you team. Thank you. Thank you for
the presentation. Uh over to the judges
for Q&A.
>> Yeah. Thanks Maris. Please go ahead.
>> Yeah. uh for training purposes you said
your size of the model uh that you used
was 10 GB
>> uh like I g I just gave an example for a
data set but the uh actual data set was
>> actual data set was varying because
since this was an R&D uh R&D project we
were experimenting with various kinds of
data sets and then we finalized a data
set of AI generated images which was of
a size about 4 or 4.5 GBs and the images
were of size of 256 256 resolution. So
then we need not waste our computational
power for resizing those images. We
directly fetch those images into the
required resolution there.
>> And how much was what was the number of
uh uh fake deep fakes versus real
pictures and that?
>> Uh oh. to the ratio it was it was like
70 75,000 images for real and 70,000 for
deep fake and then we divided that into
the train test and validation uh sets
for training purposes.
>> So you use the same u model meaning set
of data for the validation as well.
>> Sorry sir I didn't get your question.
>> Did you use the same set for validation
or did you choose a completely different
set for validation? Uh no sir we did
choose
of the same data set we created a
different set sub of the validation so
we did that yes
>> and how different were the images were
they all people of the same category
were they different and so on
>> well they were a mix so what we tried to
include first we had only a data set of
deep fix deep fix data set so it only
included the faces and the faces were
off. But then uh the problem of
generalization was there. So we shifted
to the new data set which I mentioned
before the 4GB1 and it included almost
all kinds of images that were AI
generated uh edited with AI in the deep
fix part and the real part included all
the real life images of cats of animals
of dogs of of humans and of even
landscape. So I wanted to we wanted to
generalize our model more so that it can
detect any AI generated image too. So
for that we uh did that this
>> okay Satish.
>> Yeah thanks for your presentation. Uh my
name is Satish. Uh first of all uh how
do you define deep fake?
So defects are the images which have
been edited semantically. They are pixel
values have been edited. So the values
the images which have been morphed with
some other layer that can be a deep
fake. A completely AI generated image is
also a deep fake. And uh some images
where only the face the complete face
and the facial features with the pixel
values of the image have been changed or
have been manipulated with are can be
called as deep fix.
>> Uh what do you mean by pixel value?
Pixel values means the RGB values the
red, green and blue values because uh
since we have to look for the the
pattern in the pixel because AI
generated images have a pattern in those
RGB values and the real life images have
a different pattern. So that can be the
binary classification problem here. And
by converting an image to the tensor, a
2D or 3D tensor, we can compare that
values with the uh real life images. And
by that we can distinguish between a
real and a deep fake image.
>> Uh so the the strategy generally is that
you are training the model first with
the real images and then you're trying
a deep fake and it will report a deep
fake. Is that the general principle?
>> Uh yes sir. We are providing the sets of
the real as well as
the real as well as those defects to the
model for training purposes and then
after that the model when given an input
for testing it will give a output that
is it a defect or a real one.
So now generally there are two
approaches. One is that you are looking
for the the
uh how true the face is. Uh the other is
whether there are any artifacts arising
out of synthetic creation of an image.
Uh now when AI creates an image, it
leaves artifacts which are some
patterns. Now if you're looking for that
approach, then you don't need any other
thing. You can straight away look at the
image alone in isolation and see whether
it carries the artifacts that a typical
AI generation has.
>> Yes.
>> And if it has it then you can say this
is a deep fake. The other is to compare
with a real image. But the problem with
the real image is that you need a lot of
photographs of a real person. uh if it's
a new person, if it's a new film actor,
actress, you may not have all that. So
how do you compare these approaches?
So the the approach which you explained
the last that is the real images that
approach we had uh taken for because
since defects the images are edited to
the very basic layer. The first approach
were the artifact approach which you
mentioned in that the naked human eye
can distinguish between the AI generated
image and the real life image but the
deep fakes many times we cannot
distinguish between a deep fake image
and a real life image. So due to that we
we wanted to evaluate the image at the
very basic level and then under make the
model understand that is this image deep
fake and this image is the real one. So
this is why we took the second approach.
>> Uh but then you don't need to look at
using the real eye human eye. The whole
reason why the computer is used is to
look at things that the human eye cannot
see. So why do you then fall back onto
the human eye methodology?
>> So the human eye again like the human
eye methodology many times like a defect
video of any celebrity a person cannot
distinguish that. So the the computer
itself it will classify those things
into the defect and the real one. And
since
>> I think we're running out of time. So
one last question.
>> Okay.
>> Suppose you take an image of President
Trump and you flip it left to right.
>> Yes.
>> And uh what does your system say? If you
give this
>> it will it will it will give the real
value like whatever the value is the the
the classification uh category will not
be affected because since we are dealing
with the pixel values unless and until a
pixel
>> the pixel values change. No then you
flip it. But the pattern sir, the
pattern matters.
>> What are you then comparing? What is
this? The pixel values that you're
talking about. What is the grid
of pixels?
>> The grid pixel the grid of pixels
contains the red, green, and blue
values. So every every AI generated
>> what size?
>> Uh 256
initial.
>> Uh but that's a very small stamped size
kind of portion, isn't it? 256. These
days images are at least 248 or no 1024
at least.
>> Yeah. Yes sir. But but due to the uh
hardware constraints we were not able to
include the larger image sizes because
that was the main purpose behind using
the node cluster because our college
didn't have any uh powerful GPU to
single-handedly train that and even the
online services like Google Collab and
Kaggle hugging face they did give us the
free time of only 30 hours per week. So
we couldn't rely on that. So we wanted
to take the things into our own hands so
that we uh so then we approach uh we
took this approach of distributed
training and we created this cluster. So
that's
>> that's okay. So thanks Bis. Any
followup?
>> Yeah just one followup. You talked about
the at scale. Uh so how at scale are you
looking at a cloud-based deployment? Can
I go back to that architecture?
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Um
>> yes.
>> Okay. and uh uh how how do you plan to
deploy it at scale?
>> So uh currently we try to deploy uh
deploy it on a free uh services like uh
Warsel and we also tried for AWS but uh
currently it needs uh larger uh larger
RAM servers because uh for our plugins
it we have to fetch multiple images and
send multiple images to the server. When
we s for evolution in other on other
hand we have model architecture on other
hand we have the images input or we can
say that for comparing this we need a
kind of evolution power to classify
between the real and defect for that to
handle the whole huge cloud and the huge
image data so we need on server side or
deployment side we need a kind of GPU
cluster so
>> I agree I agree right I am not asking I
didn't ask you whether you deployed it
or not. I'm just saying from an
architecture perspective. I don't see a
whole lot of uh cloud native elements
here. So that's why I was just checking
did you look at what cloudnative
architectures look like uh for uh you
know large scale scalable deployments
because this doesn't look at so that's
why I used checking if you used for
example AWS as a well architected
framework for deployments and things
like that uh did you use any of those
versus
>> our model is trained on Python distrib
distributed cluster then we came across
a concept like a Python serving or
TensorFlow serving, we can use that kind
of services to serve our model. Mainly
there are many cloud platforms like AWS
as you have mentioned. We can use uh
instance for that matter.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Thank you sir.
>> Thanks uh Arvin. Back to you.
>> Thank you judges. Thank you team. Uh
thank you for your presentations and
thank you judges for your questions. uh
team you can uh leave the meeting.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Susan, can you please confirm the team
has left?
>> Somebody new has entered. Is it the next
Uh no that's neither that's our
volunteer.
>> Yeah I think the previous team has left
all of them.
>> Okay then uh then we will be going ahead
and calling the next team sir. So or do
you need uh anything uh any? Yeah sure.
So then we will be going ahead uh with
the next team. The next team will be
uh IA251 autograde. Uh the team member
joining will be Alanto Manu. Uh so one
sec. What is the where is the last team
from? Which institution?
>> It's from Pune. Uh let me just just give
me a minute.
The college is PES modern college of
engineering Pune. And uh the next team
will be from uh St. Joseph College of
Engineering and Technology Pal. The team
>> Okay.
>> The project title is autograde.
>> Sure. Uh okay. Admitting the team
>> good morning team. Uh Alendo, can you
hear me?
>> Yes sir. I sir I can hear you. Sure.
Thank you. Yeah, you're audible. Thank
you for joining today. Uh so we have uh
Sadish Babu and Waggi Srian here as the
jury member. Uh okay you can uh uh like
uh jury till jury this is Alanto Manu
from centers college of engineering pal.
Uh they will be presenting uh their
project uh right now. So you can go
ahead and uh start alto manu. And the
thing is that we will give you a warning
at 10 minutes uh because we are planning
for 12 minutes of presentation and then
the the floor is open for Q&A. That's
how we are planning as already
communicated.
>> So we can start. Thank you. And uh will
you be on video mute or will you be
turning on to video?
>> Uh okay I I can turn on my video.
>> Sure. Thank you.
>> Okay.
>> Sure. Please go ahead. Thank you. All
the best.
>> Okay. Let let me share my screen. Okay.
>> Is my screen visible?
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Oh, okay.
Okay.
Uh myself. I'm from St. Jose College of
Engineering and Technology. I'm here to
present my project autograde an
intelligent exam sheet scoring system.
Um this is guided by uh Dr. GP Joy. Uh
these are the contents of the
presentation and coming to the project
overview. This is an uh a powered
platform. It is designed to automate the
grading process of the descriptive
handwritten
uh descriptive handwritten answer sheet
using the cutting edge technologies and
large language models. Uh this project
aims to eliminate the need of manual
checking and it delivers faster and
accurate and consistent evaluation
transforming our traditional educational
assessment process. Uh these are the
problems solved with the help of this
application. This reduces the grading
time and saving the valuable time of the
teacher and it cut the evaluation code
with the help of the AI powered
automation and it gives the student the
clear evaluation results and feedbacks
based on where the mark is reduced and
it give the students uh usually need to
pay for the answer sheets but here we
are providing it by cloud instantly we
are delivering the results so it
eliminates delays and stress and it also
provides a realtime tracking for the
grading and process for the teachers.
The core architecture of this project is
mainly the front end is built with NexJS
for the responsive UI and everything and
back end is built with NodeJS and this
is for the PD processing and handling a
lot and everything and I have I'm using
the large language model here uh as
metalama 3.2 two vision model for OCR
and I built a OCR on the top of this
model and also we have used 3.3 instruct
model for semantic reading a database is
used with the help of hostess and I have
used uh main name drizzle which is
hosted on neon serverless and I am using
radius for the caching which is provided
by abstach and the cloud provider I'm
using is cloudy and I'm have hosted this
application in versel and also the
backend servers are hosted in versel uh
sorry run co and railway and here the
vector store is coming from uh uh the
same neon server system it's a bg vector
store and they I'm using hacking face
embedings too uh the entire thing is
automated with the help of uh github
actions and uh doer whenever I commit
the change commit anything to the main
branch it will automatically push to the
uh docker hub and the image will be uh
rendered on the uh particular uh several
servers and these are the implementation
details uh the OCR pipeline is includes
a PDF popular module which is uh capable
of extracting the 120 text to uh digital
format with the help it is done with the
help of metal lama 3.2
And here I am using the reasoning based
evaluation. Here the descriptive answers
are evaluated based on the reasoning
model of metalama 3.3 model and also it
is implemented with help of the ra uh
the data storage and using the cloudary
for storing answer sheets and answer
keys and also uh for uh reports and
scores we are using postsq and for cloud
cloud native solutions basically uh
everything is hosted on cloud services
like uh serverless possession
radius caching for
recently used answer keys and this this
entire application is built on load
balanced with the help of multiple
servers and there's a round probing
logic is running in the background to
balance the load whenever multiple users
comes to the system. Here realtime
insights are provided to this the
teachers with the help of uh dashboards
and for students they have we are using
such several graphs and for showing the
student performance and here the
performance metrics of this particular
project the accuracy of the OCR is
around 97 to 99% depends on the
handwritten clarity and the evaluation
time is only takes around 3 to 4 minutes
of for a 30page answer booklets and here
the time for the teacher it is saved
around 95% than the manual grading. Uh
the the variance of the uh manual
grading bases this this system is only
around 2 to 3%age. It is uh this result
is actually achieved from 30 to 40 paper
valuations which is done in our college
itself. Uh the cost efficiency is around
70% comparing to the manual uh current
ongoing systems. The future scope is
this particular project is like we are
we can enable multilingual grading. uh
currently this particular project
supports English uh Hindi and couple of
languages but here we can also include
multiple multilangual language. Okay.
Also here the di complex diagrams and
map vision can be uh evaluated with the
help of uh some vision models and also
we we can implement the plagarism checks
for deep uh for analyzing the copied
content and everything and also there
are for bulk upload and large scale
processing we can integrate uh in
whenever the product is on sale. Then
also we have uh this similar
technology can be adaptable to school
boards, coaching centers, uh
examinations, competitive examinations
as J uh J advance and everything. Uh
that's all time. I will
share my uh screen for showing my
software product. Am I audible sir?
>> Yes, you are.
>> Yes, you are.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yes. uh this is actually the
software which I built for which we
built for this uh evaluation process.
This is the homepage for the teacher
where we are uh mentioning how the how
the these things how to use. We are also
providing sample answer sheets and
sample answer keys. Uh also we we
specified a answer key format. This is
the most common format which is followed
by every universities. The KT is
following this similar structure. So we
follow the same structure here. Uh this
is a teacher where the evaluation
process is going on. Basically providing
the teacher ID and details. I uh
uploaded the answer sheet up front for
saving the time. Okay. Here I uploaded
the student answer sheets for the demo.
And next I will convert this answer
sheet to the digital digital I mean
digital format. Uh here uh this is done
with the help of the OCR. Uh this is not
like the our common OCR. Whenever we
come with the normal OCR, we will
definitely fail when we coming with the
100 things. The core idea to come up
with a LLM to uh build an OCR is like
how we our teachers will able to
evaluate our messy answer sheets. It is
only because of his or her experience in
evaluating the answer sheets. Couple of
he or she have 15 or 16 years of
experience in evaluating this messy
answer sheet. If as a student if I ask
my friend to evaluate my I mean read my
answer sheet he may if it is missing he
may not be able but my teacher can this
is only based based on the subject
knowledge first the second factor is the
experience. So basically when we go with
the the experience is there but the
subject knowledge such kind of things
won't be there. So basically when you
come up with LLM we have an idea and
whenever we add a top layer for this OCR
it it will perform best. That's why we
got the results. You can verify the
results based on this uh m/s and
everything how messy it is. But actually
we can we are able to do that in a
perfect way. The next part is like we
are uploading the answer key here. The
answer key is uploaded. Uh this
basically the format is like the answer
key answer question will be there. Then
if there is a uh the explanation to mark
example two mark such kind of answer uh
key is provided how our university
provides here the uh random
implementation comes in whenever I
whenever the question comes to the model
it will definitely retrieve the question
plus there whenever we can we can upload
pre-upload the video study materials all
the study materials related to the
course so definitely it will fetch the
thing and it will uh retrieve the
documents I mean chunks of the data plus
it will rearrang it and for the token
limits and everything so we will rerank
it and provide the top 10 element 10k
elements I mean they will be provided so
it based on that it it gained the domain
specific knowledge for the evaluation so
the evaluation will be crystal clear
that's the key thing this is a radius
actually the provider here the answer
key which is recently used is cache so
here when I select it it will it will
become radius so this is whenever I hit
the next button You can see the
evaluation results here. Uh the first
three questions are evaluated with 100%
of confidence where the first fourth
question is not 100%. That's why it's
open textbook. Here the confidence level
reduced because of the diagram. Here the
diagram is uh it's not it's complex. So
it is unable to detect because if we
want to achieve a 100% of uh accuracy
and consistency we can't go with
diagram. So each each person will draw
in a different manner. So basically we
can't go with it. So I I just overrided
manually overrided this thing and it
will dynamically fetch the answer uh
diagram marks from the answer key and it
display here. This is this two what I am
showing in the text box is the theory
mark the the just the two marks for the
diagram. So teacher can only award two
marks for the diagram apart from these
things are uh I mean not not editable
fields. uh so when whenever we can after
the evaluation it will go for the thing
here there are lot of logics like
revaluation such kind of thing is uh
implemented so basically the previous uh
student ID will be matched against the
database and it was called either it
might be a revaluation or the teacher
may misunder the student ID so we can go
for the both thing so uh okay we can go
for the thing I will just enter a
I just entered a student ID and the
student score saved successfully Okay,
here the next panel scores the teacher
can go to the analytics section and
teacher can view that uh what all the
courses teach evaluated and what are the
things paper subject here in detail
course can be evaluated here the teacher
can set a pass percentage and download
the excel sheet for this particular
students and it can be exported easily
so teachers don't want to take extra
effort for doing this thing so uh the
next uh platform is for the students
here I have a student platform where uh
the where the students have a separate
login here after the login the uh
student can view their dashboard here
I'm just going for Google login here you
can see after the login I can see the
dashboard this is student dashboard here
you can see the currently evaluated
course here when I go to the course here
we are displaying our answer sheet this
is cloud in our cloud storage so
basically we need to pay an extra amount
to the universities to get this answer
sheets currently we reduce the cost so
currently 750 or 850 rupees is not
supposed to be paid by the student. It
is displayed here. So they can do that
part also. Apart from that we are also
giving the question based analysis and
it will clearly mention that where the
mark is why the mark is what is the real
answer. The thing is like whenever it
have the subject knowledge of the
particular LL can reason accurately and
it gain the domain specific knowledge.
So basically we can give all those all
all those informations perfectly. That
is a key idea of coming with with this
uh reasoning why the mark is the
feedback for the student. This one
definitely will help the students to
enhance their learning experience and
everything also we can provide some chat
boards because the model gained all the
long knowledge about the course. So we
can definitely give a chatboard and
student can ask any questions related to
this. This is the software uh we built
for this thing. Uh I finished my
presentation.
Uh
>> I want to uh quick question.
>> Yeah. Yes sir.
>> How much of uh uh documents did you
upload uh to from a rag perspective?
Right. Uh you said uh study materials
can be added uh answer keys can be
added. uh you know potential past answer
valuated sheets could be added. How much
of that did you actually add?
>> Uh actually I I come up with the I mean
I just tested with our uh normal CBSC
biology science. So I just uploaded the
download the documents from the CBC
website and just uploaded the documents
for the rack structure. That is a key
idea behind this rag structure. So
basically when I whenever the question
comes in I will extract the question by
pattern matching. there's a logic there.
So I just extract the question when
basically then the rack will be I mean
semantic match basically they will go
for and retrieve the uh related chunks
from the thing and I will reign it with
a model which is running on the CPU a
small small hugging face embedding model
which is running on CPU level. So it
will retract that thing and it with the
reasoning model. So it will append the
content specific domain specific
knowledge to the uh LLM. So it can
reason correctly and it can basically it
got the answer key. So they got the
answer key basically the explanation and
now the model knows what is the right
explanation what is the right exam based
on this right.
>> Okay. How do you make sure that if the
question is slightly varied right you
will get the same result because that is
where the hallucination typically would
occur
>> right because if it doesn't understand
the question and if it can if it can't
>> uh you know get the feature very
specific feature
>> uh you would probably have the llm
hallucinating so in this case how much
of you know feature mapping did you do
because if it is 100% feature mapping
then obviously we going to have
challenges when the questions change or
the questions are reword right
>> uh basically uh we we basically give
this answer uh answer sheet I mean the
digital answer sheet of the student
particular question plus we will embed
append the answer key plus the argument
so basically we will we set the
temperature as zero so basically it
won't think more I mean it won't
basically
>> so what you're saying is the exact
question with the answers or the answer
key is what you load from a matching
perspective.
>> No, I mean we have two modes sir. Uh in
the in that LLM itself we have two mode
actually there is a liberal mode and
normal mode. In liberal mode it will
evaluate liberally uh whenever come to
the normal mode it will normally but we
are actually setting those things. We we
can manually change those things uh
based on what we want. That's the case.
So if it is coming for the liberal mode
it won't be checking that as it is. If
the answer is as it is not it it will
think like a teacher okay from the
teacher perspective he is expecting
something like does the student actually
gained some information or the pro
outcome or the program outcome is gained
or not that is the core logic of the uh
examination. So in the point of
examination it will think just recently.
Okay. And uh this is a very well-ritten
uh handwritten document meaning this is
not how messy. If you say this is messy,
I would disagree with you.
>> Yeah, of course.
>> What levels of messiness did you test
out? Because accuracy of 97 to 99% is
almost impossible for any kind of
written document. This is a very
well-ritten document.
>> Okay. So, so how much how much did you
how much of variance did you do?
actually I mean I presented this in a
conference and they actually tested in
multiple scenarios. I will show if you
are ready I will show a document I mean
they uploaded they uploaded a document I
mean which is not easy to read by ML
model uh I I will try to upload the
document and show you I mean uh is it
the level of messiness I mean it won't
be too I mean it's actually not capable
to read perfectly but it is
This is a document actually they tested
with. So are you uh visible sir?
>> It is visible. Yes. Sorry.
>> Yeah. I mean is it uh okay? Okay. I mean
the each each word is not too easy to
read actually. Uh some of the thing is
like but is not able this is right
actually. So this is the level of
messiness I think what you expect. Is it
right sir?
>> No but that's okay. I think Satish.
>> Okay. Uh
I mean whenever the student is okay
ready for uh right I mean the teacher
should understand. Okay.
>> Hold on hold on. I think Satish has a
question.
>> Thanks for your presentation. So uh are
you aware of any universities or
colleges who are using uh not your
product but any similar product which is
using 100% AI to score sheets.
>> No I never seen I actually went for an
expo I mean they invited us to present
our software for the expo but many LMS
providers actually reached us because
they are ready to integrate but they
told like currently we don't have a such
thing in our market. I mean like uh like
this evaluation is I mean this kind of
the end to end software is not available
in the market like uh processing the
thing with the help of LLM it's not
available I referred several e uh
conference purpose I mean purpose search
purpose it did gives like some of the I
mean question paper I mean pattern
question like keyword mapping keyword
matching is there whenever it is not
reasoning it properly because they are
not using lms So
>> okay uh so are you aware of the reason
why uh most universities prefer not to
use such a product?
>> So hello sir uh can you come up once
more?
>> Can you think of some reasons why
because LLMs and AI has been around for
more than a year now and
>> theoretically it is not very difficult.
Why do you think universities have not
adopted this in large scale so far?
>> Uh the thing is like there are multiple
scenarios. I mean when in our current
system I mean if student can write in a
specific way then then student can
continue the answer sheet in this line.
I mean if the start from here student
can write from this if we coming to a
math question someday he can mess up the
lines and everything. So it will be
hard. Okay. Let let us differentiate
that the first task is the OCR
>> that is conversion of a answer paper
into something that is computer readable
which is maybe in ASKI or in some other
format.
>> That is one task.
>> There are significant challenges there.
>> The second task is given
uh an input in computer format which
means doc x or pdf or whatever. ah yeah
>> judging that and both these tasks have
their own challenges.
Uh uh I am not convinced that burgis's
question is very relevant. I'm not
convinced that uh
uh the first part that is uh parsing a
handwritten document in a technical
subject meaning these are all exams
which means you know uh at least 12th
plus kind of grades and these are
subjects which are uh which have a lot
of jargon meaning language specific to
that subject which is not general
general purpose. So the conversion of
that handwritten text with anything
above about 50 60% accuracy I'm not able
to believe that that can happen. That's
number one. Uh but that's not where my
problem is. That is a significant
challenge that converting this
handwritten stuff into sensible text.
>> Ah yeah of course.
>> Second part is to do with the actual
scoring of the text.
>> Yes. Now what do you think are the
ethical and legal implications of such a
tool? So suppose you apply the soft and
there are many ways to fool the fool the
AI for example just like you have deep
fakes there are ways of fooling AI.
There are ways of determining whether it
is AI or not. There are so many
complications there. But what do you
think are the ethical and legal
implications of this? Suppose the
student go to goes to court and say the
AI has not understood anything of what I
have written.
>> Okay. But but we are actually providing
the reason why your mark is lost. What
is the reason behind losing the mark? So
definitely student can refer those
>> descriptive question is answered by the
student in a certain way.
>> Now when you say answer keys these are
not objective type questions. Objective
type questions any computer they've been
doing it for last 20 years.
>> Yeah. Yeah. subjective open-ended type
answers.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you have a key for that?
>> I don't know.
>> So when you say you hand over the keys,
how do you have a key for an essay? Uh
>> I mean this is how our university
actually follows. They are actually
following like
>> you have taken one subject
>> particular question.
>> You have taken one subject. I'm talking
in general about I'm talking about say
linguistics which is a subject in your
university.
>> Okay. And the linguistic question is
about comparison of Indo Dravidian
languages.
>> There are so many ways of writing an
essay like that. What would LLM do with
that?
>> Uh
>> what kind of key can you hand over to
LLM?
>> Okay. Okay. I mean some papers don't
have the actual what key we expect.
That's the key thing.
when we
principal they actually told like
majority of our KTU answer answer papers
I mean answer sheets uh which question
papers which is released have a key with
the university so they basically this
hand I have I was talking about the
legal aspect of it somebody can go to
court and then it's very very hard to
prove that you know a is right
>> then they'll start questioning the key
if you have such a thing called a key
for a open-ended question But what about
the ethical aspect? Have you heard of
bias uh in
>> NLM? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> What is bias?
>> I mean like uh it can vary based on the
how much we I mean how you access the it
can vary I mean different times it can
it may not be consistent inconsistencies
there.
>> Well bias has been well documented in AI
and there are significant issues shall I
say. So I'll stop here. Uh, any closing
questions?
>> Hello.
>> One sec.
>> Um,
yeah, go ahead.
>> I I think you asked us my second
question which was the scoring part and
how much of reasoning is is around the
scoring. Uh, but I think I you know uh I
I leave it at that. U one more thing uh
did you use any papers? You said you
checked multiple papers but there are
many papers around uh hand
identification of handwritten and then
conversion of that into reasoning.
>> Okay.
>> Did you use any papers around it? Did
you check with uh for example where did
you get your set of answer papers for
>> uh answer papers or answer keys?
>> Answer uh sheets or handwritten answer
sheets and obviously the keys as well. I
mean uh we just created I mean we have
our own internal examinations I mean
answer sheets we just took it from the
our college itself and we just tested I
mean the teachers are really interested
to check it whether it it will work or
not they are really interested to check
it so basically I mean didn't I mean
whenever we tested it actually
>> how many how many how many did you get
and how how varied were the subjects
>> uh this actually I mean there was not
too much variance like uh there was some
question from I mean uh this computer
network was there. Uh some of those DPS
was there. I mean diagram question I
mean diagram answer sheets were there
also some there were I didn't take some
answer people like engineering mechanics
or something it will definitely fail
because it's full of diagrams. So that
kind of things it will definitely pop up
I mean open the text box so uh it
doesn't make sense. So basically uh rest
around 30 is taken and teacher put 40
mark teacher put around 35 our uh thing
gives around 32. So uh teacher told okay
this is because if they ask that a
particular question it is actually
reduced. So if I ask the teacher that
why it is reduced because teacher said
like okay I think like the student
understand what I mean he studied or I
mean what he understand the topic. That
is the question that Satish asked right
>> if right if the if let's say in this
case you go to code I give you the
solution you go to court and say that
>> I got 32 now see the difference between
35 and 32 32 is failure
>> and 35 might be a pass
>> okay yes
>> right now now that you now that is why
Satish asked that question right
>> ah yes yes that's the thing yes there's
a slight variation will be there because
the inconsistency is Here of course
there will be of course this is not too
much inconsistency if it's 2% or 1% is
actually teachers are got accepted okay
if it's in a primary level because the
reasoning is anyway they are giving the
feedback so the student can actually ask
for if a revaluation or such kind of
things needed we can give a button or
something for the revaluation for the
particular question or something we can
do that part
>> all right thanks thank you
>> I have a couple of add-ons the
suggestions for you first is that uh the
main problem with approach is that there
are no safety nets which means there is
no human being that cross checks some of
this at least the outliers suppose
somebody get 100% or somebody gets 2%
marks then there's no human being to
cross check what the head is going on so
if it is human a day so it's it is AI
plus human then there is some scope of
at least some non-technical subjects
that this could be used and the second
is that uh there are places where such a
tool is useful. So those are not
complicated legally or ethically and all
that. Suppose somebody wants to you know
capture some written notes or something
like that and you know store it
somewhere. For those kind of things
there may be a utility in such a tool
but for exams I would say it is very
difficult to kind of use it as it is. So
thank you very much and back to you
Arvin.
>> Oh okay.
>> Thank you Chas. Thank you, Alento. Uh,
thank you for your presentation today.
Uh, you can please, uh, leave the
meeting room. Thank you.
>> Oh, okay. Okay. Thank you.
>> So, Alando is out now. Uh, can we go
ahead with the next team, sir?
>> Yep.
So the next team will be uh the team ID
is IA0299
Echolink uh intelligent emergency
response and crisis management system.
Uh it's a project from
uh
government engineering college.
So uh I'll be adding
the team right now.
I think we have uh Vishad Garta and
Ashikar here. Uh
can you hear us
team?
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Okay. Sure. Thank you for joining today.
Uh we have uh the chases here. Mr.
Sadesh Babu uh
co-founder and past president of INA and
Mr. Vagisar and head of technology
services at USG. Now uh you can start
your presentations. You will be having
12 minutes for presentations as we have
conveyed earlier. At 10 minutes you will
be given a warning uh and uh once 12
minutes up the it will be all to the
judges the Q&A will start. So that's the
idea. uh we can start uh and you can if
you have a presentation you can start
sharing it and start the presentation
over to you. Thank you.
>> Yes, thank you. So uh Ash can you share
the presentation?
[Music]
should be
excuse me team. Uh sorry for
interrupting. Uh can uh Ashik please
mute? There is an echo coming in. Uh the
ones who is talking can uh turn on their
microphone.
>> Okay.
So hello everyone. So we are team studio
and we are presenting our project that
is echolink.
Um
okay so we all know like what the
disaster management we all know about
disaster management response right so uh
even with the advent of AI we still have
not uh like we have not implemented a
lot of the capabilities of AI into
disaster response management. So uh we
we all are familiar with uh like
incidents like KA floods or even
landslides why not landslides and all in
all these situations what an idea that
came up with us is that uh we can
actually implement the fast
responsiveness of AI in order to
actually uh augment our augment the call
centers in order to uh get them to a
faster safety net. Okay, that is our uh
that is our main idea. So in the realm
of emergency response the efficiency and
accuracy are like really paramount and
for in traditional call center cases for
example metrices from uh I don't
remember like I don't remember the exact
place but uh the metrices from uh US
call centers is that almost 63% of the
call centers are actually understaffed.
So in case of an emergency where lives
matter the the
uh the fast uh the respon the fast
responsiveness is of ultimate
importance. So if uh so with all these
in mind we are presenting our project
the echolink AI in order to actually
help the call centers in uh it's not uh
it's not actually replacing the call
centers or the people in the call
centers. it is actually a method to
actually help them into help them to get
uh uh get to a faster response. Okay. So
we all know that uh okay it is one of
the fundamental rules of UI uh like user
experience is that it is easier for us
to read than to hear and it is easier
for us to talk than to type. Okay, that
is uh that is the fundamental uh
fundamental tagline that we built this
entire thing in.
uh if if you have a option between
having to read an entire passage of uh a
passage of uh a call called response or
to hear the entire thing the reading
part will be obviously faster especially
if it is combined with the power of
generative AI. So can you go to the next
slide?
So to improve the emergency call to
centers by enabling critical enabling
criticality analysis from voice data
efficient voice to text conversion
seamless call integration and single
click dispatch effective span detection
to enhance the response speed and
accuracy that is the problem statement
that uh we have chosen. So uh if if
there exist a more uh if there exist a
tool that is actually able to uh uh to
to act respond to users in a real time
and decide which which department or
which uh which forces to be sent to a
certain place. uh all these extracted
from the call itself and um and have the
have the uh call center operator
actually uh crossverify this in a single
in a in a glance and then send forces to
to that certain place in a very quick
manner that is uh that is I think that
is a really really important thing.
Next can you
so objective of the project was to get
the criticality analyst from the voice
to uh to convert the voice to text to
have the call integration and single
dispatch and spam detection. So out of
this uh like we were planning on a
really a really great awesome project
but uh in the end as all good things
come uh there were many uh many setbacks
for example uh one of the very important
thing uh that we couldn't we couldn't
actually do was that uh to integrate
local languages for example like the of
course uh the calls are actually coming
in local languages for example if there
is a problem in Kerala the calls will
obviously come in Mallaya So for that we
actually tried testing uh models such as
uh uh wave toe wave toe fine tuned with
my alarm language uh like there were
models available in hugging face but the
these models even though they give a
gave out a certain level of accuracy but
uh they were not they were not up to
that standard to be able to uh
implemented in uh implemented in a in a
system that actually requires a really
good uh response. Okay. So uh that is
one of the hitchbacks that we face.
Another FA problem that we faced is we
wanted to integrate the calls uh from
the mobile call itself. But that was
something that we going to do because uh
like uh because of some limitations
between giving out random numbers to uh
so we tried many services like exotal
and tilio had a policy but uh that
actually uh didn't allow us to uh create
numbers uh so exot didn't allow us to
create numbers to actually take these
calls uh without actually giving a
company registration or something uh GST
number and all and uh for for the case
of Twilio the international calls were
taking up too much too much cost. So
that is why we we actually created a
simple simple uh dashboard that actually
uh that actually takes a
so it's it's an emulator in simulator.
Okay. Can you go to the next slide?
So uh the incoming calls are actually so
the ideal scenario is that incoming
calls are actually rooted and to the
speechtoext module and to call analysis
module. These are connect back to the
LLM. Then they are stored in a database
and then the operator can actually uh
decide which dispatch service to send
to. So here we are implementing a uh
implementing an endpoint where uh like
an open standard where the dispatch
services can create third party like
plugins for themsel. For example, if we
we have things for ambulance, fire and
fire uh polace, but uh things such as if
there is a if there's a case where we
need a third party service, we would uh
we can have them uh onboarded uh easily
with our endpoint. So, uh it's just
sending a uh sending an endpoint to them
like uh AP endpoint to them. Okay, go to
the next.
Next slide. Okay. Um, can you skip that?
So that is the UML diagram of this. So
here we have the use case diagram. So
I'm just speeding things up and
okay that is uh we had a great design
but in the end we couldn't actually uh
implement a lot of those designs because
we wanted to have that fast uh product
that uh we made something quick uh with
uh Python uh Python and PIQ. Okay, go to
next. Okay. Uh so let's go to a demo.
And uh so for the services that we use
we have tried multiple services uh like
I've told for the call part we tried
things like exotent will and uh then we
tried to source an uh an inter one or
two international numbers but that all
went to a dead end so we couldn't
actually implement that and uh for the
piqt for the UI part we did it in piqt
and we have a demo page in uh like next
also uh the intended software but uh in
the one in pyq we actually used uh
services like we tried services like for
example the latest geiny live streaming
service that uh that this came out we
some just some time before our project's
presentation and uh and then uh that
that actually had the support for local
languages but uh we couldn't actually
implement that part uh but what we
implemented is that uh to use Hume AI
and also we tried 11 labs but uh because
of that uh time latency thing we
actually went back to humanai. What
humai gives you is it will provide a
live communication platform. So if you
you can have a live conversation with an
AI and it'll give you the transcript of
the text as well as the criticality what
the tone of the the emotion or what the
tone of the text is. That is what we are
getting and so let me share my screen.
Uh
so here is a dashboard that we have.
Okay. I hope
I hope you can see this. Uh so uh
maybe if I start the conversation uh
what will happen is that the we'll see a
live transcript of what is happening
here. We have a database of whatever is
happening here. And uh the problem is
that uh the
uh you'll see that uh the transcript
actually takes a bit of latency and also
it is that uh
okay see the the entire thing is being
said but uh now it'll talk back to me.
Uh
>> hello this is Echo from emergency
services. I'm here to help. Please stay
calm and tell me what's the emergency.
>> Uh were you able to hear the sound of
the uh this thing talking?
>> Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay.
So, here's the problem. Without a mic,
uh it actually loops back. So, there is
a problem with that. So, if I use a mic,
then we'll be able to uh like have a
conversation with the AI like real
conver like a real agent. And if I end
this call, uh so this is a simulator
environment. So if I just call the
conversation summary will be actually uh
will be updated and you can see it
here.
User uh user see
uh discusses issues with the AI. Uh then
there are all the histories that are not
actually marked as resolved. There are
some issues. So this is another
conversation that I just started and
there's a fire reported near this place.
So this passes the uh this parses the
information of what what the place is
all those things from the from the
conversation itself. What we can
actually do in the future is that if we
if we can actually connect with the
emergency services. So if we dial an SOS
number we can see that uh it is actually
taking all the uh location details from
the user and actually sending it. So we
can actually use that for better
responses. And so here we are showing a
map and this problem uh the place here.
So if we click dispatch you can see
which uh which service to send to that
place and we can actually mark this
thing as a result and that'll give green
green time. You can see the history of
what what what all were happening. So we
can see a time stamp. You can see a
summary of the calls. We can see the
live transpect of the calls of each call
here and the criticality of each of
these calls. For example, this was a
dummy conversation. So the criticality
is low. EPAM is yes. Uh so the user is
unknown. the location is unknown because
there was nothing much in that call,
right? Uh the same for this case. Uh
user discusses the low priority maybe
not a spam and the no other details were
being sent for but in this case we have
a fire report that has a medium priority
and uh the the location is actually
given and uh
so that is the gist of it. So uh we can
see the call history is here and also
the analytics of how many uh like how
many calls were taken and all those
details here that uh so another intended
thing is that uh we have a excuse me
uh can you see
Yeah. Okay. So in this live demo, so
this is one of the UIs that we enision
like we couldn't actually like
integrated with the uh like proper front
end only part. So this is actually a
demo that is actually like hosted in
versel. So here we can click the pol and
the dispatch service has sent po to that
area. So we can see the uh like live
a live emotions or what the what the
tone of the speaker is. So yeah that is
about it. Uh did I miss something? Ash.
>> Yeah sure. Over to you J.
>> Yeah. So my name is Satish and uh uh my
first question is in one sentence what
are you trying to do here?
>> We are trying to improve the speed of uh
disaster responses in call centers
with AI.
>> Disaster responses in call center. Uh
what does that really mean? Can you give
me a use case?
>> Yes, I get. So uh suppose there are like
uh okay of I'm sorry I didn't say it in
the presentation itself because of the
okay so uh suppose there are 10 calls
that are coming to a call center so uh
call center that is that is
>> so these are telephone calls
>> yes telephone calls
>> not WhatsApp calls or uh
>> no no
>> SMS or uh anything else only telephone
voice calls
>> yes voice calls
>> mhm
>> so there are 10 calls that are coming up
and already this enter is thick pack and
people are actually talking to talking
like all suppose all the operators are
actually talking back. So what our what
our project does is it actually takes
the these calls in parallel and actually
lets an agent talk to that and actually
is lets the operators see the see in the
dashboard how critical each of these
calls in is in real time and if it is
needed you can he can actually see the
transcript and if he if he can actually
see what the problem is. Is there any
problem with the AI that is actually
talking back or how if it is really
critical he can actually step into that
call and actually uh like uh connect
with the person.
>> So what is really new because there are
a lot of chat bots which uh communicate
you know through conversations
uh with telephone lines. Earlier it was
uh you know you press one and press two
and all that. Now it is all talking
also.
>> So what is new in this case? uh what is
new is like uh the AI so the project
started like one year back so then we
couldn't actually there were there were
no cases of uh like in my in my personal
experience there I haven't seen any kind
of AI that actually talks back to the
call in in the context of a disaster
management I have researched but I have
not found anything that actually uh does
this exact thing
>> okay so uh uh the the the problem with
disaster is that it is time critical.
>> Yes,
>> it's also theme critical meaning, you
know, somebody may be about to die.
>> Uh I'm not sure if you heard of a very
famous case study called LA, London
Ambulance Service.
>> You can look it up afterwards on the
internet. So what happened is that in
the early stages of computerization
about 20 25 years ago the London
computer dispatch of ambulances
>> decided to switch to a computerized
system from a manual system.
>> Uh and there's a lot of story you know
what happened actually and all that but
finally it ended up killing many people.
uh you know sometimes ambulance is
getting late by 12 hours
>> all because of the fact that the system
could not anticipate what is about to
happen.
>> Now your system you're saying that uh
calls come in and if the operators are
busy then the call goes to an AI robot
chat chatbot.
>> Yes.
>> And the chatbot tries to do some kind of
sentiment analysis to figure out is this
critical or not. M
>> uh and then if it's critical it probably
pops up a you know message in someone's
console saying here is something
critical attend to it neededly.
>> Uh so uh the first challenge of course
is in understanding uh if you are really
talking about on the field system not a
theoretical system in the lab uh is in
understanding what the speaker is
talking about. Uh so here in IT we have
dealt with many emergencies like the
Kerala floods you mentioned but much
before that the 2004 Indian Ocean
tsunami
where a Kerala I ka section team went to
different places including Tamilad and
Kanyakum community district all that the
problem is when the call comes in it is
almost incoherent
>> uh it is not even good speaking meaning
the person who speaking is under
tremendous pressure.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh so to understand that person if you
do not know the language uh if you do
not know the place names uh if you do
not know the contact the the actual
background or context it is very hard.
>> Uh that's one challenge. Maybe we can
overcome that challenge by training the
network or something. I'm not sure.
Yeah, that is a challenge that is faced
by the like by the that is bottleneck of
the technology itself because like we we
know like this we the even the latest
technology is bad at understanding
slangs understanding the dialects that
are there or things like that that is a
bottleneck that is that the technology
that uh provide like that stops us
>> right uh then the second is uh you you
convert it into some kind of textual
information and then you do
sentiment analysis on it. How far is
that kind of free from bias and all
that?
>> So, uh the sentiment analysis actually
is not done in the text itself but the
hum for example in the in our case we
are using hum. So hum actually provides
us like the the sentiment in the sound
it is. So how hurried the voice is how
concerned the voice is
>> in what parameters
>> in in in in what kind of parameters?
What does the software tell you? This is
urgent. This is not urgent.
>> It's not urgent. It is like uh the mood
of the voice itself. It is sad. It is
urgent. It is concerned. It is happy.
All these things.
>> Uh how does it tell you? Meaning what
does the function return?
>> Uh so uh it returns the uh like it
returns a set of parameters like for
example happy like sad concerned all
these like there are set of values that
are there and it gives a provides of a
confidence for each of those.
Right. Okay. So, we're not even looking
at what happens subsequently. Meaning
there is a popup that comes up. We
stopping it right there. Uh because the
first stage and the second stage we
talked about there are many challenges
and these are not easily kind of
the main problem being the context. Not
because the technology cannot do it. The
technology is already available for
various domains but not generally. If
you found a general technology that
handles everybody's questions uh then it
becomes you know very language specific
and all that. So there are challenges.
I'll stop here over to you.
>> Uh yes
you talked about the solution you looked
at.ai and I'm assuming you're talking
about humor.ai and recognizing the human
emotions. uh from a deployment
perspective, how do we how do you make
sure that this is scalable because one
of the other challenges meaning to all
the ones that Satish already mentioned
is is something that you kind of
considered right the call volumes at the
end of the day the call center has only
a limited number of you know pipes that
they they have right so call volume uh
becomes a challenge and if you're saying
that okay the pipes are all engaged
essentially you will pass this off to
the uh agent
Right. The automatic agents
>> even the agents need to scale.
>> Yes.
>> Right. Because there are you know this
is this is not a clean scenario where
there is one call after the other
coming. Right.
>> So you need to really look at how we can
scale it. So from that perspective what
did you consider?
uh so for now like as you see in the P
actually is a completely locally running
thing and uh yeah we haven't actually
thought about uh like the scalability
point of view but what what can be done
is like uh the so there is possibility
so we have seen that there is
possibility of you may actually be able
to take parallel calls and uh we have
also seen that uh the services like
exotu actually providing us so if a all
comes to a pipeline you can actually
redirect to various uh various
individual pipelines or various
endpoints that that can be like it can
be parallelized into various endpoints.
So that is uh that if if problems comes
to that then we can actually see we can
we we do see solutions there all these
services that provide uh the pro
possibility of parallel uh working.
>> Okay. And then you talked about the
dispatch, right, which is the action
part of it.
>> Uh is that something that you're looking
at uh from a voice perspective or is
that something that you're looking from
a data perspective? Because once you
understand the human emotions, you
understand where the the call is coming
from and all of that.
>> Uh what kind of dispatch are you doing?
Uh because the voice comes now it's an
agent, right? So it's all computer now.
You've converted the speech to text. So
are you passing the information as you
know data that goes through or are you
passing on the calls as well?
>> Uh we are passing all the data that we
have. So for example the call recording
the text that actual transcripts from
from the text and also the location for
quick access the location the the name
of the user all these things are
actually passed to another endpoint. So
dispatch endpoint. For example, if there
is a software for like so we so we
haven't implemented that part but if
there's a software for uh software for
like uh uh the so it's basically the
data that is being sent so whatever they
want to do with the data they can
>> okay did you consider the fact that
that's a whole lot of data and the size
of that becomes a would be a challenge
to the latency problem that Satish was
also mentioning because when a in a
natural disaster environment bandwidth
becomes a big challenge right it's not
as if you'll have perfect 5G kind of
services and all of that so data becomes
very I mean bandwidth become very
crucial
>> but that part is only only localized to
the problem of the disaster itself right
so for example the in the call center we
will have we will still have that
>> correct but when you do the dispatch is
what I'm saying
>> so the dispatch happens to the like uh
to the service between services itself
right so that wouldn't be a problem
>> but the dispatch see if I'm calling in
from let's say in a coil
>> there's no point in me dispatching to
trandum right I have to dispatch it to
nag coil itself right
>> now in a coil there is a data problem
>> you understand the problem is not in
trandum the problem is because the
disaster is at nag in a sense
>> okay that's fine yeah sish any last
questions
Yeah. So, uh what this application would
do if it were successfully engineered
>> would be to perhaps shift the bottleneck
from the the call taker to the the
decision maker because some human being
has to respond to these urgent pop-ups.
>> Yes.
>> Isn't it?
>> Yes. But that there we have like the
problem is that like uh not the problem
but the thing is that we can actually
that will make it much faster than what
already exists.
>> Yeah but that depends on the scalability
that you build in. Suppose you have only
one dispatch person and there are about
whole lot of calls coming in and all of
them are saying urgent. So you have 10
popups on this one person's console.
>> Right?
>> But still that is better than him taking
all these calls manually. right? One
call after the it
>> what would happen is there'll be 10 call
takers I mean who are human beings not
automatons
>> and they will communicate to this uh
boss in some way maybe intercom or
whatever I don't know
>> but here when you say that you are
making the system free of human beings
>> not free of human beings
>> so you're saying it's not free of human
beings
>> no we we are like we are actually making
it like to make the job of human beings
faster or like to help So make make them
uh the decision makers instead of
actually taking the calls and like
responding the calls individually we are
like making them uh the only the
decision maker. So because because
because we can't actually give the
entire control to AI itself. Uh that
will be another big disaster that is
coming uh as of now. But uh making the
humans as a um as a point of uh control
>> uh yeah so therefore the bottleneck
>> the moment you say there's a single I
mean the if you want to really make it
scalable then you need to have multiple
human beings at that point of the
bottleneck.
>> Okay. So I would have said this is
useful not for disasters but for things
like suppose there's a service center
for TVs. M
>> we won't register a complaint. My TV is
not working.
>> So there's there's no urgency. Nobody's
going to die because you haven't
dispatched anybody. Uh but you capture
all the records and get more details
what's happened with the TV. You know
what is wrong? What is it showing? So
maybe it can capture all those things
without a human intervention.
>> And then when the time comes the
appropriate salesman can call in the
field and listen to this uh and then
take take a decision. So uh for that
kind of a purpose where the urgency is
not a factor uh this may be useful
>> but if it is really urgent then you know
things start going the problem is a
disaster is not in one one point it is
usually spread across a region maybe two
or something and then you know the whole
load of calls coming and then if your
system fails you will have a
catastrophic situation you you you
promise that your system will take care
of you know this kind of scalability but
yet when it happens you're not able to
handle it. M so also you might want to
take a look at a software open source
software called Sahana which is
developed in Sri Lanka which is handling
disaster they've been at it for the last
more than 10 15 years now so they have
matured in in quite a bit of if you're
looking at disaster if you're looking at
service centers and all that uh service
requests then your system can be
modified to kind of I mean the language
still is an issue
malam
or you know any Indian language for that
matter is still going to be a problem.
>> So I'll stop here. Thank you very much.
Back to you.
>> Hi. Uh Aravind has some network issues.
So I'll be uh taking over.
So if everything is done uh uh current
team can leave.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
So uh
so the team members have left right?
So uh can we move on to the next team?
>> Yeah that's
>> okay sure. So the next the team ID is
IA0261.
The project title is early detection of
bine mastitis using machine learn.
I'll repeat the project ID. IA0261
I think yes we are in the waiting room.
So shall I admit the participants?
Which college?
>> Just a second. Second I'll let you know.
>> Yeah, the college is TK College of
Engineering.
Sorry for the network issue. I'm back.
Okay.
Yeah. Uh
>> so Darren and Ahmed uh is here. So they
will be presenting their project to the
jury. Uh hi team good morning. Uh we
have a jury here. You can uh start the
presentation. You will be having 12
minutes of presentation time and a
warning will be given to you at 10
minutes and uh after that after the 12
minutes the judges will take over. It
will be Q&A session. So yeah or YouTube
you can start. Thank you.
Yeah. Okay.
Uh hello sir am I able?
>> Yes you are.
>> Uh so uh good morning everyone myself
Dar. Uh I will be explaining about our
project early detection of bow mities
using machine learning.
Uh we are from uh TKM college of
engineering from department of EC. Uh my
project members are Ahmed, Barak Moin
and Abdul Rahman J. And we have done our
project in collaboration with Veterary
University Trashur
uh and uh the associated faculty members
are Dr. Vinatkumar K from college of
veterary and animal sciences university
prur and professor Vishnu professor
Shabiras professor anosis professor sena
a from tk college of engineer.
So these are the contents that uh we
will discuss in this presentation.
So coming to the introduction. So
basically we have developed a a device
which can detect boine mastis in real
time uh and which is easy to use to the
farmers. So coming to what is bin
mastitis? Bin mastitis is a common
inflammatory disease which is seen in
diary cows which is caused mainly by
bacteria
which affects the other and which leads
to reduced milk production quality. So
we have developed a device which detects
massities in real time by using three
parameters
conductivity TDS and WBC count of the
milk sample. So our device reduces the
antibiotic overuse and prevents uh AMR
and promotes sustainable livestock
management and our project also benefits
the rural community where farming is a
li.
So uh our project also aligns with the
UN sustainable development goals such as
zero hunger, food health and wellbeing
and industry innovation and
infrastructure.
And this is our problem statement. We
have tried to develop a device to solve
this problem that is uh to detect the
master status in its early stages. So
the current detection methods are very
costly and it uses only small less
number of parameters which has uh which
results in reduced accuracy and uh they
need experts to be and the current
methods need experts to be done. Uh so
we have developed a low cost device
which is easy to use and can be used uh
by farmers alone. So these are the
drawbacks of the assisting methods. They
are having very high cost. They are
having complex operation. They are
nonportable. They are often time
consuming and they take uh several hours
or even they take several weeks to to
give us the results and they only take
limited parameters
and these are the objectives of our
project. We have um tried to develop a
project uh which is uh uh we have tried
to develop a cost effective solution
which enables realtime processing and
which is userfriendly and portable
and a easy to use tool for diary
farmers.
And talking about the impact of mastis
uh the mastis reduces milk production
and weakens animal health. It affects
the food safety and causes health risk
from contaminated milk and it also leads
to antibiotic residues and harmful
bacteria spreading in soil and water
and this is a recent study which was
conducted by 80 and in this study it
states that boast results in 70%age loss
in milk production
and this is the methodology which we
have used we have collected the data uh
authentic data from uh veterary velocity
pressure. We have used that data to
train the model and we have used a ween
model uh for detecting the uh somatic
the count of somatic cell from the milk
sample. We have also used a we have also
developed our own custom conductivity
sensor and we have also used a TDS
sensor
and we have used a Microsoft setup for
capturing the images of the milk sample
and we have integrated all these into a
3D design which we have developed using
solid work software to uh which results
in the final product.
So we have actually developed this
project in two phases. In the first
phase we had only integrated uh two
parameters that is pH and conductivity
and this is the initial design of our
phase one
and in this design there was a manual
mechanism
as you can see in this right side of the
slide. This was the device which we have
developed in the phase one. So uh in
this device uh we had to pour the milk
in the beaker and we had to dip the TDS
sensor and pH sensor into the milk uh
which uh uh reads the pH and
conductivity values of the milk sample
and it predicts whether the uh
particular milk sample is having mast or
not.
And uh we have further developed this
first uh prototype into our final
product by adding
our own custom conductivity sensor and
by using a Microsoft setup for counting
the number of somatic cells from the
uh milk
from the cow. So uh now I am going to
talk about the development of our custom
conductivity sensor. So we have
basically used a voltage divider circuit
and a probe and a microcontroller
uh for measuring the conductivity of the
milk sample.
And this is the conductivity sensor uh
which we have developed. And you can see
the
realtime values which we have measured
using the conductivity sensor.
And this is the Microsoft setup which we
have uh added to the initial stage uh
for increasing the accuracy. So
initially we were having a 600x
magnification uh by using objective lens
of 45x and an IPS of 15x and later we
have upgraded
uh into 1,500x magnification using 100x
oil immersion lens
and we have implemented a we have
attached the Raspberry P to the IPS lens
for capturing the images which was uh uh
taken into the Raspberry Pi for further
processing. And these are the images
which you have captured using your
Microsoft setup. These images are fed
into YOLO V10 model for counting the
number of WBC cells from the milk
sample. So we have collected 252 sample
images from 25 SWAT
and talking about the WC count machine
learning model we have used 10 model
and the model was implemented in
Raspberry Pi
and these are the results of our machine
learning model
and we have received an accuracy of
91.6%age six percentage
and these are the output of our yellow
model
and this slide shows the uh validation
data and the prediction data.
It shows two batches basically the left
figure shows left figure of each bar
shows the validation data and the right
figure in each bar shows the predicted
data.
And this is our final design. In this
final design, we have incorporate we
have added um a Microsoft setup and
our custom conductivity sensor. And uh
basically uh this design consist of also
consist of an adjusting mechanism where
we can adjust the microscope to take uh
good clarity images. And this is a slide
inserting session. I will be showing the
working video in the later slide. uh
which will explain in detail about the
device.
So this is a sliding mechanism. So
basically
uh this slide holder holds the slide
uh which is used to take the
uh images of the uh milk sample.
So our device consist of a milk and
stain dispenser unit. So uh if I am to
explain detail. So uh this slide holder
actually consists of a slide which uh
which is inserted in the during the
first phase and this slide holder which
holds a slide moves under this milk and
stain dispensary unit where uh initially
a drop of milk is is dropped into the uh
slide inside the slide hole and after
that uh it is uh spread using a spread
evenly. using a um a glass sl
which you can see besides the drying
unit and after that it moves under the
drying unit where the milk smear is
dried and after that the slide holder
moves under the stain dispenser unit
where a drop of stain is added and it
again moves to the drying unit where the
stain is dried. So now we get a uh
stained milk smear and this preparation
is then taken under the microscope
where it adjusts itself to take images
of uh somatic cells from different
regions of the prepared milk sphere and
these images are then fed into the yolo
model to count the number of WBC cells
in the milk.
So this is the TDS and conductivity
sensor which we have uh added in our
device. And on the left side you can see
the glass sl which I have mentioned
earlier which is used to spread the milk
and stain smear uh uniformly and this is
the small working beauty of our
prototype.
So initially it measures the TDS and
conductivity values as you can see
and after that we have to insert the
slide here. So we have to only insert
the slide we have to do nothing. It will
just count the milk and it will give the
result.
So now it is counting the uh WVC. I know
it is uh dropping the milk. You can see
milk drop command in the LCD display.
And now you can see it is drying the
milk.
And you can see it is uh dropping this
st
and the stain is dropped. And the stain
is dried now.
And now this slide holder moves under
the uh microscope where it takes the
images and now it displays the number of
somatic cells and it is and it predicts
whether the C is having clinical
mastities or subclinical mastics. So
this is our uh phase one project phase
one prototype and phase two prototype
and this is a model comparison between
phase one and phase two. Uh our phase
one is having was having only two
parameters and our phase three was
having three parameters and we have made
our final prototype a fully automatic
system and we have improved the accuracy
and as a future scope we have uh we are
aiming to improve the AI model and we
have we we are also trying to implement
an automated sample collection
and as a conclusion we have developed a
real time mast detection machine uh
which which is easy to use to the
farmers. Uh we have to just insert a uh
we have to only insert a slide at the
beginning. It will just uh count the uh
it will just predict whether the flow is
having subclinical or clinical massages.
Uh, I hope.
>> Are you going to say something that
stopped?
>> I think there is a network issue inside.
Does anybody else from the team want to
take? Yeah, we can continue. Yes,
>> can you hear us there?
>> Uh, does anybody else on the team want
to take over?
Muhammad Abdullah anyone
if you're speaking we are speaking on
mute because we can't hear you.
Uh hello.
>> Yes.
>> Uh hello sir.
>> Yes. Who is this?
>> The current must put here.
>> Okay.
>> Is this Darren? Uh I'm not sure. We not
sure who this.
>> Yes. Darren.
>> Yeah.
>> Continue.
>> Yeah. Shall I continue my presentation,
sir?
>> Yes, please you can continue.
>> Yeah. Okay, sir.
Yeah.
[Music]
So, I was into the conclusion. So, uh in
the first I have uh I forgot to
st
Uh the
statities are two stages
and subclinical.
Subclinical
um
occurs in the early stage and if it is
not diagonalized
only it will affect the c.
So our device aims to identify
subclinical mast in this early stages.
Yes sir. And these are the references
which you have referred to and and
that's it sir. Thank you.
>> Thank you Darren. Uh you can uh I think
there's a bandwidth issue. can stop
sharing so that you can save the
bandwidth and uh over to the judges for
Q&A.
>> Satish you understand?
>> Yeah. So thanks Darren for the
presentation. Uh it is good to see that
uh this is a project that uh goes down
to the grassroots of society with milk
farmers and producers. So my first
question is uh your testing machine
uh where is it located in the lab in the
dairy or somewhere else?
>> So
I think there's a network issue again
with Darren.
Does anybody else from the team want to
take the question?
>> Yeah, Darren rejoined. Darren, you can
unmute and uh start.
>> Yeah. Hello, sir.
>> Yeah. So, take turn off your video
>> otherwise you will lose bandwidth.
>> Okay. Did you hear the question?
>> Yeah. Yes sir. Our device is a portable
device. We can use it any practical
actual practical use. Where do you
propose to situate it? Is it in the
dairy or is it
>> in the dairy?
>> Okay. If it's in the dairy, there
there's a problem. The problem is that
suppose a cow has mastitis.
>> Yeah.
>> That cow's milk is supplied to the local
society
>> together with all other cows. It is
mixed
>> and the mixture is brought to the dairy.
>> Yeah. Now if you test it you might find
a positive but you have no clue where is
it which cow it is coming from.
>> Uh actually uh uh we are plan we are not
implementing in such diaries we are
giving the device uh where individual
codes are treated like in each house a
device should be there.
>> Oh my that is overkill no to have a you
know testing device like this. Okay. Uh
then uh what are you that staining? What
kind of staining are you using?
>> Yeah, we are using uh
>> uh uh I forgot the name actually. Uh
>> is it gram staining?
>> Normally straining is used to separate
two kinds of bacteria, gram positive and
gram negative. Uh actually we are using
the staining uh to
uh to uh remove the fat content of the
milk.
>> What stain has nothing to do with the
fat content?
>> Yeah. Uh and uh
>> see the the concept behind staining is
that there are two types of bacteria.
One is a pathogens which actually cause
disease. Other is the normal micrllora
and you want to count the pathogens
because they are the ones who are
actually causing the disease. So
staining allows us to separate the two
into two categories. There are two dice
used. Uh so
after the the slide is dried you find
the two colors in the output but you
seem to be counting everything.
Uh
>> so what are you actually counting?
>> We are counting the number of sematic
cells.
>> What is a sematic cell? Uh actually uh
the number of sematic cells in a normal
cow's milk is uh very lesser when
compared to an affected cow.
>> No, that is not a sematic cell. A
sematic cell is a normal cell. If you're
detecting
early mastitis
that should be shown by one particular
type of cell. See mastitis is a genetic
disease caused by a bunch of bacteria
starting with straus orius and even
e.coli sometimes is a pathogen. Now any
technique that counts everything is of
no use because even the purest of milk
will have bacteria in it. That's not a
bad thing. But if you have pathogens in
milk, then you have a problem. So you
ought to be actually counting the
pathogens and not all cells. If you
count all cells, you get a fairly
meaningless number.
So I'm not able to understand. Can you
explain how it is?
>> Yeah. Okay, sir. So in when when we were
into this project we had a little uh
study about this uh condition
and in this study we were able to
understand that uh when the cow is
affected by mastis in his early stages
uh
uh the number of somatic cells in the
milk increases. So rather than the which
is seen in the normal cows so if you
>> let's assume that's the case let's
assume that's the case. uh and uh you
are straining the the milk sample. So
hopefully that will allow you to count
all cells in the milk or is it only
so-called somatic cells?
>> Uh actually uh only somatic cells.
>> How does that staining work? I've never
heard of the staining that will only
kind of stain one particular type of
cell when there are actually a number of
different types on the in the milk.
Can you tell me what staining it is?
Yeah sir. Actually we are using uh
uh
okay so uh forget it if you're not
>> new stain. Sir what
>> new man stain?
>> What is the actual stain used?
>> Newman stain.
>> No that's that's the name of the
technology. But what is the actual the
color? Is it like myth violet or
>> methyl blue?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So what what does that convey?
What uh so you are saying that methile
blue only colors malignant cells or what
you call as
somatic cells. So uh you are doing a
count of that.
>> Yeah. Yes sir. We are doing the count of
somatics.
>> So what does it indicate? Are you
comparing with any standard saying that
beyond this point it is suspected
mastitis?
>> Yeah. Yes sir. What is the threshold?
Uh
about two like
two lakhs.
>> Yes sir.
>> Two lakhs per mill.
>> Okay. So where in your program are you
extrapolating from the count that you
get from the the stained slide to this
number because stain is not 1 ml stain
is much less than that.
>> So how will you check whether sorry
>> uh we have only uh we have calibrated
the milk dispensing unit to drop exactly
1 ml
>> 1 ml will run all over the slide. You
don't need 1 m.
>> 0.01 ml
>> part of
>> sorry
>> 0.01 ml.
>> Oh, 0.01 ml.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> We have
>> uh uh right. So u
I also do not understand where you're
testing the pH because according to you
the pH is another indicator.
>> Yeah. Okay sir. So we have used all pH
as a parameter only in our first device
and it was pretty unstable. uh the the
pH meter which we have
>> the device is unstable or the indicator
is unstable.
>> The indicator was unstable. So in the
final model we decided to remove the pH
and we have we developed our own custom
conductivity sensor.
>> But what have we given the idea that PH
is an unstable indicator of anyway let's
not go into that but PH is a well
doumented indicator of early massis.
>> Yeah sir but uh the one problem which we
encountered was that the PS sensor
needed to be calibrated. So it's a
sensor problem not a pH problem.
>> Yeah. Okay. Sorry sir.
>> There are various ways of Anyway let's
let's Okay. That so so you have ignored
PH now and we only you're only
concentrating on the the cells.
>> Yes sir.
>> Anyway I'll stop here. I have a bunch of
other questions but I'll stop here and
over to Bergis.
Right.
>> So you you said you use uh the YOLO V10
U to measure the number of sematic cells
right.
Yes sir.
>> Uh and you said you run that on a uh
uh if I'm not mistaken a
a small board. So uh what size is that
model and how accurately does it run?
Because uh you know I thought it would
need a fairly high level of computation
to to run. So how do you ensure that
there is enough computing power to get
the right answers?
>> Yeah. Okay sir. So when we looked into
the yellow model it has it had varieties
of model like yolo b y
we have particularly used yol model
which is suitable for suitable to be
implemented in raspberry play devices
where resource is a constraint.
>> So does that uh reduce the efficiency in
in any way? What does study show? For
example, if I run it in a, you know, in
a cluster versus running it on a
Raspberry Pi, what would be the accuracy
differences?
>> Yes, sir. The accuracy will be a bit
less uh up to two to three percentage.
>> But uh uh I think sir, we have only uh
we have only used V10 model since we had
to make it as a portable device. We have
not used the other models to
And uh uh to the question that was asked
you know in terms of the counts how do
you ensure that the the accuracy because
at the end of the day uh everything that
you do is based on the total number of
count in a sense right.
>> Yes sir. Uh so how do you ensure do do
you have a human in the loop somewhere
to kind of verify and validate uh you
know the accuracy of the results? U
how do you make sure that you are doing
uh things right?
Uh actually we have uh we have trained
our model to predict the results right.
So
uh during the training process uh uh we
can say that this is uh 91% accurate. So
we can
say that it is accurate.
We don't actually need a human to
>> okay so so what was the training? How so
how much how many samples did you use in
your brain?
>> Actually we had 252 original samples
we had done.
>> Yeah. Yes sir. We have increased the
sample to 3,000 by using various data
processing methods.
>> But that's synthetic data.
>> Yeah. Yes sir. So uh the s authentic
samples were very hard to find uh
because uh we were unable to find uh it
was very hard to find the cows which are
having mastitities.
So we had to take this much number of
samples and we had to replicate that
samples.
>> Okay.
Thank you. solution.
>> Yeah. So, one last question. Uh I think
personally, this is my personal uh
opinion that you're putting too much of
faith in your model. If you're saying
that you will do a bunch of initial
tests and then let the model continue
without any supervision, which is what
Bitiz was asking, uh that is very
dangerous.
>> Yeah,
>> we always need to have some kind of a
backup at least random checking or
outlier checking. Outlier is when you
have some samples which are very very
very way very way very way very way very
way very way very way very way very way
very way very way very way very way very
way very way very way very way very way
very way very way very way very way high
or way low then you need to go and check
why it is so low or so high or random
checking you you you choose random every
day you choose some random samples and
cross check otherwise the faith in only
model at least the current phase of AI
may be misplaced so that is a piece of
advice that I can give you thanks for
your presentation back to
>> okay sir thank you sir for the advice I
think it is a uh we have in thought 10
minutes
sure thank you thank you juror uh I
think there's no more questions from
anyone
okay thank you team thank you for
presenting u you can uh leave the
meeting right now thank you uh thanks
So I think uh
yeah the team has left right?
>> Okay.
>> Uh just a minute. I think the other team
is already here.
>> Uh yeah you can just ask them to join
the waiting room again. Uh it's not now
here please.
So
the the next project
uh is from
yeah the next project is from
Federal Institute of Science and
Technology. Uh Akil Babu will be
presenting their project titled Code
Guard. Uh the project ID is
uh IA 0282 0282.
So thank you. I will be admitting that.
Please hold on. Uh
the team is joining. I have admitted
them.
>> I I add them but I think they will join
for some reason.
>> Yeah, they left again and I mean they
are not joined here. Uh Susan, can you
please coordinate with the
>> Yeah, I'll call them up and ask them to
join.
>> Sure, please. Thank you.
>> Actually, they were in the waiting room.
Yeah, he's in the waiting room.
Yeah, Akil Babu has joined. Uh good
afternoon, Akil.
I think you're on mute.
Hello.
Are you saying something? We cannot hear
you right now.
I think there is a network issue
actually. Can you please try it again?
Is it only for me or for others also? Uh
what's this name?
>> Yeah, I can't can't hear.
>> Akil, we cannot hear you. Do you want to
try again? Uh by leaving and joining
again. Do you want to try that?
Hello.
>> Hello. Can you hear me?
>> Yeah, now it's clear. Yeah.
>> Oh, okay.
>> So, uh we have the jury here. You can
start your project presentation. You'll
be having 12 minutes to present. 10
after 10 minutes, you'll be given a
warning. And after the 12 minutes are
up, uh it will be open for Q&A. Are you
good to go?
>> Yeah, I think your voice is again
I think uh your voice I mean there's a
network issue there. Your voice is
breaking up.
Hello. Happy
does anybody else
uh on your team wants to take over?
>> Hello. Can you hear me?
>> Yeah. No, it's okay. Yeah, it's
>> Oh, okay. Thank you. I'm the only person
in my team.
>> Sure. Sure. Yeah, you can start
presentations. Thank you. Thank you, J.
>> Thank you.
>> Actually, uh if there's a network issue,
uh you can turn off your video to
preserve the bandwidth. It's okay.
>> Oh, okay. Yeah.
One second.
Can you show my can you see my slides?
>> No. Yeah, now it's Yeah, now we can see
your slides. I can see.
>> Okay. So, good morning sir. My name is
Akil Babui MK. I'm completing my B
computer science and engineering at FISA
with a CGP of 8.92 and also an
undergraduate research in cognitive
computing research center. So let me
know let me explain project. So imagine
this scenario it's 3:00 a.m. your
application is live and serving
thousands of users and suddenly you
discover that in a single line of
vulnerable code has exposed 147 million
user records just like what happened to
Echifax in 2017. a simple XQL injection
that could have been caught and
automatically before deployment.
So there are multiple real world
examples for these types of attacks like
Tik Tok excss attacks in 2020 and
British airway data breach in 2018 and
if as I said earlier Equifax SQL
injection attack in 2017. So software
applications are frequently targeting of
such vulnerabilities like SQL XSS ACS
and many different types of
vulnerabilities. So our main problem
statement is despite the rising number
of security breaches, developers
struggle to secure their codebase due to
manual security audits are slow and
expensive and make it hard for
developers to find and fix vulnerability
in time and security audits are often
conducted after their project completion
or even post deployment make it
difficult and expensive to identify and
fix vulnerabilities. So attackers
exploit security gaps faster than they
are patched or increasing risk. And
another problem is that traditional
security rules lack automation recurring
expert intervention also. So what we are
need is that a fully automated AI
powered security solution to detect fix
and integrate secure direct into the
development workflow.
So today I'm here to present code guard
an A powered security guardian that
ensure the these types of night
nightmare never become your reality. So
our objective is to develop an advanced
vulnerability detection tool which can
able to catch OB's top 10 vulner
vulnerabilities with rule tained
analysis and along with machine learning
process and along with that a smart
patching like fix flows instantly using
a generated patches from LMS and we can
able to integrate GitHub so that we can
able to import and scan real time
through GitHub projects and we
integrated CI for continuous integration
for the pull and pull push request.
So our codec cat is a cutting edge
security platform to enhance codebased
protection through intelligent
vulnerability detection and AIdriven
remediation. The system integrates
seamlessly with the GitHub allowing user
to scan code bases for critical
vulnerabilities including OBS stop and
risk like XSS and escalation. As I said
earlier, coders employs an hybrid
approach, an advanced sd also known as
static application security tool
developed in house that combine tainted
analysis of abstract syntax nodes like a
source to train sync tracking with a
rulebased detection. For further
improvement of accuracy, a word plus
LSTM model is developed to develop
detectabilities. Upon identifying these
types of vulnerabilities, the platform
leverages a large language model to
generate precise context away patches
and enable one-click fix with automated
GitHub commits. Additionally, code
integrated CI pipeline to scan code
changes during the p push and pull
request flagging vulnerability in real
time by seamlessly integrating advanced
detection automation remediation.
Codegard empower developers check the
codebase efficiently. So during the
development cycle of this project, we
are achieved four different things. So
as I said as we know that to develop
such a production ready application we
need a realtime data set to develop an
LSTM based machine learning model. So I
go through every data set that are
available for in the internet. But I
identify that uh they are not ready for
production ready or production level or
they are just snippet of these types of
we cannot able to accurately predict
these types of these types of data. For
for that we developed a comprehensive
data data set from GitHub and proudly we
can say that from online available data
set our data set is biggest size in size
and production ready format. And
secondly our excss model implemented
achieve comparable accuracy with a
significant enhance processing speed
compared to the latest paper in result
in engineering science network. And also
we know that for a classification model
we can only say whether a file or
whether a code has vulnerability or not.
We cannot able to pinpoint the location
of the vulnerability where it actually
there and what type of vulnerability is
that for that we developed a method
capable of pinpointing the vulnerability
location using machine learning and able
to productize it also. So this is
basically the architecture of our work.
So when a user come to our platform we
authorize with the GitHub application
then he can see different different
projects that are available in GitHub.
Then after he select one of the GitHub
application that he need to scan for
these types of vulnerabilities. He can
configure whether he want ML or not.
Then after that we need send it to an
analy engineer. In the analy engineer we
said we already set a SAS plus machine
learning powered engineer there. we can
able to combinely process the code and
generate a detailed sif report about our
vulnerabilities in a codebase and this
sif report and along with the code we
send it into large language model to
efficiently identify and fix those
vulnerabilities. So, LLM can able to
understand effectively and generate g
like uh
def like uh code like before the
vulnerability and after the
vulnerability and the developers can
able to see these types of uh able to
compare this uh change able to
push these changes indirectly to the
GitHub and also you can you don't want
to come to a platform and endly scan the
project and uh fix this penalty. You can
able to uh so suppose you you have a
project and you just uh pushing
something into the GitHub. We set a CI
and a GitHub action where a project
model is there you can directly or it
will trigger automatically when a push
happen
that there is an issue
user can able to know what type of
vulnerability there and fix it.
You might want to switch off your uh
video because uh you're breaking up.
>> One second.
One second.
>> Yeah.
Hello. Can you hear me? Yeah.
Okay.
line. Then
after that uh this is can I show the
video of my project then then can I show
explain what is happening inside the uh
SSD and machine learning model which you
prefer?
>> Sure. Sure. Yeah.
>> Video sir.
>> Yeah. Go ahead.
>> Can you show see the video sir?
>> Okay. No, you are steering the uh
presentation stage. Yes sir.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Uh I have a suggestion for you sir. Uh I
think we can also go on video mute so
that uh it will save his band download.
>> Okay. How can I do this?
>> Uh yeah till you can please proceed.
>> Okay.
So can you see that?
>> Yes, please. Your browser window is
open.
>> Okay.
>> Hi everyone. Welcome.
>> Is it playing sir?
>> Yes. Yes. Please proceed.
>> Smart security platform that protects
your code.
>> The volume is a little low. Can you
please increase the volume? No. Okay.
features, the problem it solves, its
architecture, and a quick demo of how it
works. Let's get started.
As developers, we face a big challenge.
Keeping our code safe from attacks like
cross-sight scripting and SQL injection.
These vulnerabilities can lead to data
breaches or financial losses. Manual
code.
>> I will just skip for this. I already
explained these things. I will just
skip. checks abilities. Git uses a custo
structure design with a ReactJS front
end for a smooth user experience and a
flask back end for handling requests.
The system connects to GitHub via AP
generates. Now let's connect to GitHub
button to start. In this demo, you'll
see how it works step by step. Homepage.
This is the code guard homepage. It's
clean and simple with a connect to
GitHub button to start. The page
highlights features like advanced
security and real-time scanning. GitHub
login. Here we log in using GitHub OT.
It's secure and quick linking your
repositories to CodeGuard. Repository
selection. Once logged in, you see your
GitHub repositories. We'll pick one to
scan for vulnerabilities. Scanning
process. Code guard starts scanning the
code. It uses the SAS tool and machine
learning models to check for issues like
XSS or SQL injection. This takes just a
few seconds.
Results view. Here's the result. Code
guard lists any vulnerabilities found
like an unsafe input in a JavaScript
file. It shows the exact line and
explains the issue clearly. Fix
suggestions. For each issue, code guard
suggests a fix like adding input
sanitization.
You can review the suggestion and apply
it with one click which creates a commit
in your repository.
CI/CD integration. Finally, we see
CodeGuard working with a pull request.
It scans new code changes and flags any
issues, keeping your project secure as
you work.
It makes securing your code simple,
fast, and smart. By combining advanced
detection, AI fixes, and GitHub
integration, it helps developers stay
one step ahead of vulnerabilities.
Thanks for watching and try CodeGuard to
protect your projects today.
>> Hello, sir. Can you hear me?
Yes.
>> Uh can I complete uh repeat uh resume my
pres presentation?
>> Yeah, go ahead.
So,
so this is the ST working uh actually.
So basically uh what we doing is that
you actually taking the source code and
completely converted into a using some
uh tree like modules and it can able to
completely passing like this right side
format. Then after that uh first first
as a first stage we are performing like
a rule loading and compilation. So we
have a set of rules like uh as I said
there is a source in in there is a
source. So this is actually where the uh
the vulnerable code which were the the
vulnerability code that enter into the
file program and sync is where the
vulnerability will be executed. So
between the file path which we know that
we know that this this is the tainted
path. So we have set of source and sync
and set of rules are there and based on
the rules we the rules are also compiled
into a specific format. Then after that
basic pattern matching process will be
conducted as a initial process. For
example, eval of dollar X we will
convert it into A and also the code will
be also convert as and basically a
pattern matching will be happen and if
there is some vulnerability found we can
say that there is a vulnerability there
but this is the most of the a will be
like role based loading is happening for
enhancing further we are using a tain
analysis flow also there which means
there's a we are first of all collecting
source uh we are identifying the source
then
so here in the code request to get of
username here's the source and it will
send it to a user input and select start
from user it will send it to a query
then after that the query will be
executed in a db.execute execute. So in
between the flow there is no signation
happening in between the user input. So
that we can ensure that sometimes some
user can maliciously send some request
and able to execute in a a DB or some
database part so it will make vulnerable
and talent sometimes happen in some
codes. So we can see that scient of user
input in between the scient we cannot
want to we don't want to project it as a
vulnerability. So here is also handled
this by. So this is basically what
happened inside a SAS based part. Then
in order to increase the accuracy of
this uh prediction we enhanced it with
your to plus LSTM. First of all, we
collected large code base from uh GitHub
and trained a word model so that we can
able to generate vectors semantically.
Meaning after that we trained an LSD
model uh so expand code ML capability
and use word to embed code token into
semantic vector space and apply LSTM to
analyze the token sequence and classify
vulnerability in a fine grain tokens.
But one of the problem that I said
earlier is that LSTM can only predict
whether it has vulnerability or not just
a probability for an entire file. We
need to have a specific uh line where
the vulnerability are exist actually.
For that we developed a a method like uh
like a context window or a sliding
window approach.
One second. So this
vector vector uh the tokens and send it
to LSTM. Then after that uh we we will
classify whether it has a vulnerability
or not to be predicting the probability.
Sir can you hear me?
Yes.
>> Okay. So, uh I will show you how uh
actually the sliding window sliding
window approach work. So, we one second
I will show you uh stop sharing the
screen.
>> Uh just a moment I'm really sorry to
interrupt. Uh
and pu with your permission we can uh go
ahead. Uh the time has been wrapped up.
>> Yeah. I would suggest if you can wrap up
uh probably in a minute or so. Okay.
>> Oh okay sir I will I will. So uh the
context window is working like that.
Okay I will I will explain. Okay. Uh
there is a five uh token like or window
is there. Then window will be go through
each and each and every line of the code
and and there is a focus uh token is
also there and able based on the focus
token and the context window it can able
to predict whether there is
vulnerability exist in that line or also
so that it's a one step moving window so
that we can able to uh capture whether
capture the meaning also from from the
LSTM model. So again this is the result
of the LSTM plus LSTM like left side you
can see the GitHub uh code
Please share your screen again.
>> Oh, one second, sir.
>> Sir, you can see right?
>> You can go ahead. Thank you.
>> Okay. So, this is the result of uh our
prediction. Left side you can see the
GitHub uh uh file which has access
vulnerability and our model predict the
red red mark as uh these lines have the
excess vulnerability and other green
shows this there is no vulnerability and
the comment shows like the gray color.
So this is the enhanced architecture of
the LLM and we are also trained
specifically for access vulnerability
for CN plus LSD architecture and uh this
is working behind that. So finetuning is
with octunal workflow for identifying
the parameters efficiently. This is the
uh accuracy table and everything. So I
can skip okay this is what we have seen
uh the project video. This is
abstraction basic uh diagram and uh
basically initial we just looking for
LLM only based analysis but the accuracy
is not that correct. This is based but
they can able to predict it but okay but
we need to have something tool has
there. So this is the initial stud data
set. So this is that code achieve
application security through it
integration of custom sd machine
learning detection and web stop and
vulnerabilities the implementation based
pattern matching combined with LSTM
neural network deliver superior
vulnerability detection accuracy while
reducing fall positive event. So thank
you sir.
>> Thank you. Uh over to the judges.
>> I think there are already a lot of tools
including the copinets the cursors of
the world that do this. So what makes
yours very different and very unique? So
as a SAS application like SE grip code
SR like tools they just set of they
making a database and there are lots of
CVV are there inside the database so
these are not completely able to predict
whether uh these types of vulnerability
sometimes some new vulnerabilities are
there every time a new CVP is
identifying there also so they can all
they can predict pretty well but don't
don't they cannot able to efficiently
predict it and also they are a separate
tool and they cannot able to integrate
directly to a complete web project or
during these types of uh actual
development workflow and code one of the
GitHub
vulnerability detection tool and
actually they are right now actually
implementing machine learning behind the
uh vulnerability detection actually they
are also create a query language like QL
quer language inside codebase and they
have developed a large code base for
identifying vulnerabilities and they are
right now actually implementing these
types of machine learning s so I think
our tool can able to predict machine
learning accurately through machine
learning model accurately well performed
and for the prototype and everything uh
I think it's a better one that's
>> see there are two types of tools right
there are the SAS tools and the high-end
ones like snake vera code All of that
are are very very very standard tools in
in in large enterprises.
>> That's on one side. Then you also can
club it with you know tools like for
example sonar cube which also finds
vulnerabilities and helps specifically
where the vulnerabilities what's the
vulnerability and and so on.
>> And then you have the copilots of the
world which also does a lot of this that
you're talking about
>> but they are not providing actual fixes
right now to project. they are they are
copilot will give you exactly where what
fix and where
>> I think copilot is not uh trained for
this identifying uh these types of
complete vulnerabil
review module that does that so that is
why I'm I'm I'm kind of still confused
as to where this fits in um that's fine
u satish
So this if you're speaking you're on
mute.
>> Okay. By the time Satish uh you know
reconnects see one of the big challenges
with a large code base is the number of
tokens.
>> Yes.
>> Most LLMs
get uh you know very very very uh I
would say you know confused when the
number of tokens increases.
>> Yes,
>> there are very few LLMs that can manage
large number of tokens. So when you're
giving it a large project, small
projects works fine.
>> But when you're giving it large
projects,
>> what do you think would become the
challenge? One is the cost obviously,
but what is
>> so the challenge?
>> How do you kind of manage that? Because
in most organizations that is a big
challenge. So the part is that uh
initial process is like SAS plus machine
learning based vulnerability detection.
So once this process is completed we
generating a comprehensive sif report.
So they can so in the sif report
actually the severity level and uh the
like uh the where the file which file
and which line which code part has the
psycho vulnerabilities and everything.
So basically we know where and which all
are the files that have these type of
vulnerability. So we don't need to
provide the llm have the complete uh
code for for the uh context we just need
to provide the files and the
corresponding dependency files and uh
the relationship also so that we can
able to reduces the number of tokens and
also if we can able to further increase
the accuracy by creating a knowledge
graph. So basically the complete code
base will be converted into knowledge
graph they can able to track uh the
graph through which all are the files
and what are the dependencies and exist
there. So it's not implemented in
knowledge implemented we are logically
thinking about that how to create a
knowledge efficiently so that we can
reduce we can make the llm understand
effectively what the code base and
everything else.
>> Yeah. So this is Satish um
like Vis points out I don't see any need
for such a tool because coding uh and
ids and code review and plugins have
been around for 20 plus years. The OASP
top 10 has been around for about 15 to
20 years. There have been so many uh
tools that programmers have been using
over the last 20 years that does exactly
uh you know pull pull the rules from uh
maybe O was for other sources or even
your company sources for additional
security and then run code reviews for
every line of code
that is happening. It has been happening
for the last 20 years at least. So why
do you want to bother with an LLM for
this?
>> Hello.
>> Yep.
>> Uh can you please repeat the last
question?
>> No, I was saying that I don't see any
need for this. The the programmers uh
No, I started programming in about about
30 years back.
>> Okay.
>> So from then OAS was around it was an
open source bunch of you know
vulnerabilities. It has been around for
15 plus years at least.
>> Mhm.
>> And people have been coding all this
while they haven't needed any LLM to
kind of scan through these things and
you know do a code review on every line
of code. Sanitization of code you not
mentioned sanitization. It's a very
important step. You know
>> you already said about the stat
sanitization is happening. The LLM able
to generate the sanitization.
>> LM is not required for that. Programs
have been doing sanitization for ages.
So You are proposing a very complicated
solution for a simple problem which has
been you know solved by engineers by
coders developers all these years. So it
gives the impression it may not be
intentional but it gives the impression
that you somehow want to bring in AI
into this whereas it is actually not
required. AI is not required for this
particular exercise because we have been
doing the same thing without AI for the
last so many years.
>> Yes sir. for a large enterprise
sometimes it's not need sir but as we
know that
>> I'm talking about open source
programmers one person programming
>> oh okay
>> that person can do it without any AI you
doesn't have a time to bring in
>> for a large enterprise application
applications how you can able to manage
for manual intervention every time so
it's very difficult right without an
automated tool
>> no there is no this is automatic a
plug-in a VS code or a net beans plugin
For this purpose you just plug, you just
download install it and then it'll flag
as you as you code it will flag you know
what is red and what is yellow and so
on.
>> Still they using SAS with applications
they are not using any L.
>> No this is not SAS this is a plug local
plug-in
will be able to kind of provide more
details on that but I'm just saying that
you know programmers have been doing
this without any language models for so
many years. No, there are places where
language models are useful, but this is
not one of them as far as I can make up.
What do you think?
>> Yeah, that's that was my point as well
for many. If you look at copilot,
copilot has a code review module uh that
actually uses a lot of this uh including
uh you know the next best answer uh you
can you'll get vulnerabilities uh you
know online and all of that. So you know
even if you want to go there there are
tools there but to your point Satish yes
you know there are SAS tools there are
dash tools uh that does a lot of this
today which without any AI at all uh
maybe some have machine learning built
in but they all work and there are
plugins uh into the uh IDE so uh you
know it's it's all integrated and there
are open source tools as well
um So it's it's not that uh it's you
know so I think you need to really
identify where the difference is because
right now that doesn't seem to be coming
through a
>> right uh so uh it's a good attempt but
you have to precisely uh you know
demonstrate without AI this would not
have been possible and with this AI it
is possible. If such a kind of a thing
is there then it'll be clearer for us to
judge. So thanks very much and back to
you.
>> Thank you judges. Uh thank you for
joining today. Uh you can please leave
this meeting. Thank you.
>> Okay.
>> And uh Subin if you're online can you
please stop the YouTube live streaming
also and please confirm here. Yeah.
Yeah. So what?